step_by_step_guides/english/02-development.md, before:

# CDE 1.23 Hands on Lab

1. [Test jobs with Spark Connect from local](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#1-test-jobs-in-cde-session-from-local).  
2. [Once ready for operationalization push to git](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#2-push-to-git).
3. [Sync with CDE repository](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#3-sync-with-cde-repository)
4. [Deploy using CLI](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#4-deploy-using-cli)
5. [Monitor](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#5-monitor)
6. [Promote to higher env using API by replicating repo and redeploy](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#6-promote-to-higher-env-using-api-by-replicating-repo-and-redeploy)

We will prototype and test the Iceberg Merge Into and Incremental Read Operations.

# Instructions

## 1. Test jobs in CDE Session from local

Start a CDE Session of type Spark Connect. Then, run "prototype.py".

![alt text](../../img/cde_spark_connect_vscode.png)

On your terminal run the following commands:

```
cde spark submit \
  pyspark-app.py \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1 \
  --executor-memory "4g" \
  --executor-cores 2
```

You are ready to test the Spark Submit as a CDE Spark Job.

## 2. Push to git

This code is looking good. Let's push updates to the git repo.

```
git add pyspark-app.py
git commit -m "developed pyspark job"
git push
```

We can now create a CDE Repository in order to import the application into the Virtual Cluster.

## 3. Sync with CDE repository

Create a CDE repository and create the CDE Spark Job using the contents.

First, delete the job and repository in case they have been created before.

```
cde job delete \
  --name cde_spark_job_test \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1

cde repository delete \
  --name sparkAppRepoDev \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1
```

Now create the CDE Repository and sync it with the Git Repository.

```
cde repository create --name sparkAppRepoDev \
  --branch main \
  --url https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect.git \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1

cde repository sync --name sparkAppRepoDev \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1
```

## Summary and Next Steps

A Spark Connect Session is a type of CDE Session that exposes the Spark Connect interface. A Spark Connect Session allows you to connect to Spark from any remote Python environment.

Spark Connect allows you to connect remotely to the Spark clusters. Spark Connect is an API that uses the DataFrame API and unresolved logical plans as the protocol.

In this article we reviewed an end to end developer framework using Spark Connect, the CDE CLI, and Apache Iceberg. You might also find the following articles and demos relevant:

* [Installing the CDE CLI](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/cli-access/topics/cde-cli.html)
* [Simple Introduction to the CDE CLI](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_CLI_Simple)
* [CDE Concepts](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/cli-access/topics/cde-cli-concepts.html)
* [CDE CLI Command Reference](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/cli-access/topics/cde-cli-reference.html)
* [CDE Spark Connect](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/spark-connect-sessions/topics/cde-spark-connect-session.html)
* [CDE Jobs API Reference](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/jobs-rest-api-reference/index.html)
* [Using Apache Iceberg in CDE](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/manage-jobs/topics/cde-using-iceberg.html)
* [How to Create an Apache Iceberg Table in CDE](https://community.cloudera.com/t5/Community-Articles/How-to-Create-an-Iceberg-Table-with-PySpark-in-Cloudera-Data/ta-p/394800)

Commit message:

added options to spark submit

step_by_step_guides/english/02-development.md, after:

# CDE 1.23 Hands on Lab

1. [Test jobs with Spark Connect from local](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#1-test-jobs-in-cde-session-from-local).  
2. [Once ready for operationalization push to git](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#2-push-to-git).
3. [Sync with CDE repository](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#3-sync-with-cde-repository)
4. [Deploy using CLI](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#4-deploy-using-cli)
5. [Monitor](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#5-monitor)
6. [Promote to higher env using API by replicating repo and redeploy](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect?tab=readme-ov-file#6-promote-to-higher-env-using-api-by-replicating-repo-and-redeploy)

We will prototype and test the Iceberg Merge Into and Incremental Read Operations.

# Instructions

## 1. Test jobs in CDE Session from local

Start a CDE Session of type Spark Connect. Then, run "prototype.py".

![alt text](../../img/cde_spark_connect_vscode.png)

On your terminal run the following commands. Make sure to edit the "vcluster-ednpoint" and "arg" options to reflect the DEV CDE Virtual Cluster where you will run the spark-submit, and the corresponding Cloud Storage location.

```
cde spark submit \
  pyspark-app.py \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1 \
  --executor-memory "4g" \
  --executor-cores 2 \
  --arg s3a://go01-demo/data
```

You are ready to test the Spark Submit as a CDE Spark Job.

## 2. Push to git

This code is looking good. Let's push updates to the git repo.

```
git add pyspark-app.py
git commit -m "developed pyspark job"
git push
```

We can now create a CDE Repository in order to import the application into the Virtual Cluster.

## 3. Sync with CDE repository

Create a CDE repository and create the CDE Spark Job using the contents.

First, delete the job and repository in case they have been created before.

```
cde job delete \
  --name cde_spark_job_test \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1

cde repository delete \
  --name sparkAppRepoDev \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1
```

Now create the CDE Repository and sync it with the Git Repository.

```
cde repository create --name sparkAppRepoDev \
  --branch main \
  --url https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_SparkConnect.git \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1

cde repository sync --name sparkAppRepoDev \
  --vcluster-endpoint https://4spcd2c8.cde-ntvvr5hx.go01-dem.ylcu-atmi.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1
```

## Summary and Next Steps

A Spark Connect Session is a type of CDE Session that exposes the Spark Connect interface. A Spark Connect Session allows you to connect to Spark from any remote Python environment.

Spark Connect allows you to connect remotely to the Spark clusters. Spark Connect is an API that uses the DataFrame API and unresolved logical plans as the protocol.

In this article we reviewed an end to end developer framework using Spark Connect, the CDE CLI, and Apache Iceberg. You might also find the following articles and demos relevant:

* [Installing the CDE CLI](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/cli-access/topics/cde-cli.html)
* [Simple Introduction to the CDE CLI](https://github.com/pdefusco/CDE_CLI_Simple)
* [CDE Concepts](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/cli-access/topics/cde-cli-concepts.html)
* [CDE CLI Command Reference](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/cli-access/topics/cde-cli-reference.html)
* [CDE Spark Connect](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/spark-connect-sessions/topics/cde-spark-connect-session.html)
* [CDE Jobs API Reference](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/jobs-rest-api-reference/index.html)
* [Using Apache Iceberg in CDE](https://docs.cloudera.com/data-engineering/cloud/manage-jobs/topics/cde-using-iceberg.html)
* [How to Create an Apache Iceberg Table in CDE](https://community.cloudera.com/t5/Community-Articles/How-to-Create-an-Iceberg-Table-with-PySpark-in-Cloudera-Data/ta-p/394800)
